Update NAT config page to address https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-docs/issues/1424 (#1425)
ipfs/ipfs-docs: docs/how-to/nat-configuration.md

---
title: Configure NAT and Port Forwarding
description: Fix common connection issues by managing your routers NAT and forwarding ports so other IPFS nodes can interact with your node.
---

> # Configure NAT and Port Forwarding

Author: Agreed

> A common issue for new users running IPFS Kubo, especially on home networks, is that their IPFS node is behind a [NAT (network address translation)](../concepts/glossary.md#nat) layer (such as a residential network router) experience very long wait times or high rate of request failure.

Author: I like this rewrite, I vote yes

While NATs are generally transparent for outgoing connections, listening for incoming connections requires some configuration. The router listens on a single public IP address, but any number of machines on the internal network could handle the request. To serve requests, your router must be configured to send certain traffic to a specific machine. 

## Configuration Options

The appropriate configuration option for your router depends on your specific setup:

- If your router supports them, [enable IPv6](#enable-ipv6) or [enable UPnP](#enable-upnp) to solve most connection issues
- [Use DCUtR holepunching](#use-dcutr-holepunching), which is enabled by default as of Kubo v0.13
- If IPv6 or UPnP are not available, or DCUtR holepunching doesn't meet your performance and relaibility requirements, [enable manual port forwarding](#enable-manual-port-forwarding)

### Enable IPv6

:::callout

> While enabling IPv6 can fix many connection issues, enabling it may not address all of your connection issues. For example,  your router might support IPv6, but might still be running a firewall that blocks inbound connections.

Author: Agreed

:::

If your router and internet service provider (ISP) support IPv6, enabling it will mitigate some connection issues. Most modern routers have a single option to enable IPv6. We are unable to give detailed information about each router's settings and preferences here. Search your router manufacturer's website for _IPv6_ for information on how to enable it.

### Enable UPnP

If your router supports UPnP, IPFS will attempt to automatically allow inbound traffic to access your local content. Some home routers may need to be configured to explicitly enable UPnP. We are unable to give detailed information about each router's settings and preferences here. Search your router manufacturer's website for _UPnP_.

### Use DCUtR Holepunching

As of Kubo v0.13, [DCUtR hole punching is enabled by default](https://github.com/ipfs/kubo/blob/master/docs/changelogs/v0.13.md#-relay-v2-client-with-auto-discovery-swarmrelayclient).

> DCUtR holepunching has various drawbacks and tradeoffs. Currently, the connection signaling goes through a relay, which can cause an average latency of 5 seconds when opening a connection. Once a direct connection is established, latency is generally normal. Additionally, DCUtR holepunching does not have a 100% success rate and can fail. For a deeper dive into how holepunching works in Kubo, it's drawbacks, and more information on using DCUtR, see the [_Hole punching in libp2p - Overcoming Firewalls_ blog post](https://blog.ipfs.tech/2022-01-20-libp2p-hole-punching/). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DCUtR holepunching has various drawbacks and tradeoffs. Currently, the connection signaling goes through a relay, which add an average latency of 5 seconds when opening a connection. Once a direct connection is established, latency is normal. Additionally, DCUtR holepunching does not have a 100% success rate and can fail. For a deeper dive into how holepunching works in Kubo, it's drawbacks, and more information on using DCUtR, see the [_Hole punching in libp2p - Overcoming Firewalls_ blog post](https://blog.ipfs.tech/2022-01-20-libp2p-hole-punching/). 
```

Because of these drawbacks, you may want to use another solution, like manual port forwarding. To enable manual port forwarding, see the instructions below.

### Enable manual port forwarding

> If your router does not support UPNP and/or IPv6, or you want better reliability and performance than what DCUtR provides, set up manual port forwarding. Complete the following steps to enable manual port forwarding:

Reviewer 2: Change "UPNP" to "UPnP", to be consistent with the rest of the doc.

Author: Agreed

1. [Open a port from the internet to your internal Kubo node](#open-a-port). 
1. [Update the Kubo Configuration](#update-the-kubo-configuration).
1. [Restart your Kubo node](#restart-your-kubo-node). 

First, open a port from the internet to your internal Kubo node.

#### Open a port 

Each router has different options and solutions for port forwarding. Most router manufacturers have guides for setting up port forwarding on their devices. In general, the steps are:

1. Log into your router.
1. Locate your routers port forwarding section.
1. Enter the IP address of your IPFS node.
1. Set traffic to go through an outside port. 
   :::tip
   If you are unsure of what port to use, `4001` is recommended.
   :::
1. Reboot your IPFS node for the changes to take effect. Make sure to reboot the entire machine, not just the IPFS daemon.

> Now that you've opened a port from the internet to your internal Kubo node, update your Kubo configuration to set `Swarm.AppendAnnounce` as a list of addresses that other IPFS nodes will try to contact you at.

Reviewer 2: I think this paragraph could likely be removed completely. If I'm not mistaken, it is just an introduction to the next step, but the next paragraph already includes an introduction to the next step.

I think either remove it, or move it so that it follows the next header, and reword it to avoid repeating the same information.

Author: Removing it make most sense to me

#### Update the Kubo Configuration

> In this step, you will update your Kubo configuration to set `Swarm.AppendAnnounce` as a list of addresses that other IPFS nodes will try to contact you at. This list lets other nodes on the network that the port forward you created in the previous step know that your node exists, and that these are the addresses at which you can be contacted at. To update your configuration:

Reviewer 2: Something went wonky with this paragraph.

"In this step, you will update your Kubo configuration to set `Swarm.AppendAnnounce` as a list of addresses that other IPFS nodes will try to contact you at. This list lets other nodes on the network (**know**) that the port forward you created in the previous step ~~know that your node~~ exists, and that these are the addresses at which you can be contacted at.

Something like that.

Author: Your rewrite makes sense, I vote yes

   :::
   
1. Find the entry for `AppendAnnounce` in `Addresses` or create an entry for `AppendAnnounce` in `Addresses`:

   ```json
    "Addresses": {
        "Swarm": [
        "/ip4/0.0.0.0/tcp/4001",
        "/ip6/::/tcp/4001",
        "/ip4/0.0.0.0/udp/4001/quic",
        "/ip6/::/udp/4001/quic"
        ],
        "Announce": [],
        "AppendAnnounce": [],
        "NoAnnounce": [],
        "API": "/ip4/127.0.0.1/tcp/5001",
        "Gateway": "/ip4/127.0.0.1/tcp/8080"
    },
    ``` 

1. Update `AppendAnnounce`, where `<public-ip>` is your public IP address and `<port>` is the port number set in the previous step: 

   ```json
   "AppendAnnounce": [
     "/ip4/<public-ip>/tcp/<port>",
     "/ip4/<public-ip>/udp/<port>/quic",
     "/ip4/<public-ip>udp/<port>/quic-v1",
     "/ip4/<public-ip>/udp/<port>/quic-v1/webtransport",
    ],
   ```

   For example, if your public IP address is `1.2.3.4` and `12345` is the port you've chosen, `AppendAnnounce` would look like:

   ```json
   "AppendAnnounce": [
     "/ip4/1.2.3.4/tcp/12345",
     "/ip4/1.2.3.4/udp/12345/quic",
     "/ip4/1.2.3.4/udp/12345/quic-v1",
     "/ip4/1.2.3.4/udp/12345/quic-v1/webtransport",
    ],
   ```

> Now that you've updated your Kubo configuration, restart Kubo so that your node is reachable, and check that the outside port is open.

Reviewer 2: I would suggest moving this line to follow the next header, as it is essentially an introduction to the next steps.

Author: Agreed

#### Restart your Kubo node

1. Reboot your IPFS node for the changes to take effect. Make sure to reboot the entire machine, not just the IPFS daemon. Once Kubo restarts, your node should be reachable. 

> 1. Check that the outside port is open.

Reviewer 2: Consider adding an additional step to this, one that describes how the user would check that the outside port is open.

Author: I agree. However, I don't think this should block adding the rest of this in. I'd vote push as is, and then we can update that step early next week

### Enable UPnP

If your router supports UPnP, IPFS will attempt to automatically allow inbound traffic to access your local content. Some home routers may need to be configured to explicitly enable UPnP. We are unable to give detailed information about each router's settings and preferences here. Search your router manufacturer's website for _UPnP_.

<!--
### Enable DCUtR Holepunching 

Not sure what to put here

Is there a recommended repo or libp2p docs link that we can link to here that explains how to set this up for Kubo? 

https://github.com/libp2p/specs/blob/master/relay/DCUtR.md doesn't seem right

https://docs.libp2p.io/concepts/nat/hole-punching/#phase-ii-hole-punching? seems to be mostly conceptual

https://blog.ipfs.tech/2022-01-20-libp2p-hole-punching/ seems to just explain the theory

Maybe https://docs.rs/libp2p/latest/libp2p/tutorials/hole_punching/index.html and tell the reader that they can follow this tutorial to set up DCUtR Holepunching using Rust? Not specific to Kubo but seems like its the best we've got right now?

> !-->

Reviewer: Dcutr is enabled by default, the user does not have to do anything.
I think we just need to explain what it is the draw backs and / or link to the blog post.

Some people have hole punchable nats so they see some success rate, however they would have better connectivity with a port forward.

Author: Alright, based the info off of kubo/docs and the blog post 
https://bafybeidbxtj5a5t6ashyyaq2j23gy6q2muga2yaftbkx2xxlgjkebmax6u.on.fleek.co/how-to/nat-configuration/#disable-dcutr-holepunching

### Enable manual port forwarding

If your router does not support UPNP and/or IPv6, or you want better reliability and performance than what DCUtR provides, set up manual port forwarding. Complete the following steps to enable manual port forwarding:

1. [Open a port from the internet to your internal Kubo node](#open-a-port). 
1. [Update the Kubo Configuration](#update-the-kubo-configuration).
1. [Restart your Kubo node](#restart-your-kubo-node). 

First, open a port from the internet to your internal Kubo node.

#### Open a port 

:::tip

> Assuming you're not trying to expose your daemon's API to the public internet, opening port `4001`/`tcp` should be sufficient.

Reviewer: As a user, this sentence lead me to belive exposing the api port could be something i could want to do, which no, never, dont do that.

:::

Each router has different options and solutions for port forwarding. Most router manufacturers have guides for setting up port forwarding on their devices. In general, the steps are:

1. Log into your router.
1. Locate your routers port forwarding section.
1. Enter the IP address of your IPFS node.
1. Set traffic to go through an outside port. `4001` is recommended if you are unsure.

> 1. Reboot your IPFS node for the changes to take effect. Make sure to reboot the entire machine, not just the IPFS daemon.

Reviewer: This is required later, after editing the config.

While NATs are generally transparent for outgoing connections, listening for incoming connections requires some configuration. The router listens on a single public IP address, but any number of machines on the internal network could handle the request. To serve requests, your router must be configured to send certain traffic to a specific machine. 

## Configuration Options

The appropriate configuration option for your router depends on your specific setup:

- If your router supports them, [enable IPv6](#enable-ipv6) or [enable UPnP](#enable-upnp) to solve most connection issues
- [Disable DCUtR holepunching](#disable-dcutr-holepunching), which is enabled by default as of Kubo v0.13
- If IPv6 or UPnP are not available, [enable manual port forwarding](#enable-manual-port-forwarding)

### Enable IPv6

> If your router and internet service provider (ISP) support IPv6, enabling it will mitigate some connection issues. Most modern routers have a single option to enable IPv6. We are unable to give detailed information about each router's settings and preferences here. Search your router manufacturer's website for _IPv6_ for information on how to enable it.

Reviewer: Add a disclaimer here IPv6 does not always solve everything, my isp have per machine ipv6 but it still run a firewall that blocks inbound connections.
I belive that is fairly commun.

### Enable UPnP

If your router supports UPnP, IPFS will attempt to automatically allow inbound traffic to access your local content. Some home routers may need to be configured to explicitly enable UPnP. We are unable to give detailed information about each router's settings and preferences here. Search your router manufacturer's website for _UPnP_.

> ### Disable DCUtR Holepunching 

Reviewer: You don't need to disable it, Kubo only turn it off if you are not reachable.
Doing a port forward will "automatically" disable this.

You don't need to disable it.
What I hope from this point is to explain that:
1. DCUtR have a 3~6s extra latency when connecting to a peer.
2. DCUtR does not always work.

And thus you probably want to seek a better alternative if you care about hosting content behind a NAT.

As of Kubo v0.13, [DCUtR hole punching is enabled by default](https://github.com/ipfs/kubo/blob/master/docs/changelogs/v0.13.md#-relay-v2-client-with-auto-discovery-swarmrelayclient).

In the current version of DCUtR holepunching:

- Performance is normal when a direct connection is established.

> - Performance is sub-optimal when someone connects to you, because all connections must go through a relay first, which adds an average delay of 5 seconds.

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand this.

When you connect the connection signaling goes through the relay, thus have a ~5s latency for opening the connection.
Once it is open, you have a direct connection that have normal latency.

- Connection success rate is sub-optimal when someone connects to you because different routers models react differently.

For a deeper dive into how holepunching works in Kubo, it's drawbacks, and more information on using DCUtR, see the [blog post](https://blog.ipfs.tech/2022-01-20-libp2p-hole-punching/).

> Because of these drawbacks, you may want to disable DCUtR holepunching and use another solution, like manual port forwarding. To disable DCUtR holepunching, set [`Swarm.EnableHolePunching`]( https://github.com/ipfs/kubo/blob/master/docs/config.md#swarmenableholepunching) to `false`:

Reviewer: Again, you don't need to disable it, it's trying to answer:
> It works (kinda), why would I want something better ?

1. Open your Kubo configuration file. 

   :::tip
   The default location for the config file is `~/.ipfs/config`. If you have set `$IPFS_PATH`, you can find your config file at `$IPFS_PATH/config`.
   :::
   

> 1. Find the entry for `EnableHolePunching` in `Swarm` or create an entry for `EnableHolePunching` in `Swarm`, and set it to `false`:

Reviewer: See message above.
